From hanselminutes.com as Hansel minutes,
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number one 86. Recorded live
Thursday, November 5th, 2009. Support for Hansel
minutes is provided by Tellerik
red controls, The most comprehensive
suite of components In those
forums and asp.net web applications
online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this episode, Scott
talks get bugging with test
Fernandez. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman and this is another
episode of Hansel minutes and
I'm here in Malmo, Sweden,
and I have the opportunity
to sit down with Tess
Fernandez, who is an escalation
engineer with Microsoft and I
well known asp.net debugger. Hi
Scott. Thanks for taking the
time to talk to me.
Yeah, thank you. So, so
you are kind of world
renown as, as a, as
an asp.net D you've got
a really great blog. I
think you said the blog
is called if broke. It
is fix it. You should.
Yes. That's the name of
your blog? It's funny, I
guess this kind of Yoda
statement. I've never seen star
Wars. You've never seen star
Wars. Did you know that
it was a Yoda, like
statement when you said it,
it sounded something like that
character you've never seen before.
I thought it would be
cool to talk about kind
of debugging one-on-one because to
be totally honest with you
while I really enjoy your
blog and it's kind of
like I'm reading a mystery
novel. I don't always understand
what it is I'm reading.
I, you know, I see
that there's usually, I think
you're not alone. Really. I
think sometimes people read your
blog because they want to
feel smart. Yes. I think
that, I mean, I know
how to hit a five
and I know how to
push F nine and I,
you know, that's pretty much
the extent of my debugging.
Okay. Back in the day
I could use like soft
ice and do like low-level
debugging, but.net has worked so
well. I haven't personally needed
to escalate anything. And I
think that's the case for
a lot of people. That's
probably why they read it
and not use it, or
maybe they read it also
because they are still like
tips to be learned about
how to do things, to
not run into issues. Yeah,
exactly. And I know that
every once in a while
on Vista, like I would
get a blue screen and
I know that the dump
file would appear memory dot
dump, and I would need
to send it to someone
smarter than me. Usually, probably
you actually not because that's,
that would be a Colonel
dump. Oh. So that's a
kind of Cardinal dump is
of the whole O S
and the whole system. Okay.
I work mostly would use
her Mo dumpsite dumps off
processes. Okay. So this is
good. So let's, let's do
a little debugging one-on-one here.
So a Colonel dump you
said is, is a dump
of everything. It's top of
the complete memory of the
system. Okay. Including all the
different processes. So Colonel Dom
contains Everything you're seeing, right.
Colonel dumped in. And when
it blue screens, that's a
complete snapshot in time of
what's happening on the computer
at that moment that it
crashed. Okay. And you work
with user mode dumps, which
means that when a process
crashes, you have a snapshot
in time of that process.
So what's contained within that
dump. It depends a little
bit on how you, how
you create a dome, but
if you create a minute
dump with four full options,
which is normally called a
full dump, then it contains
basically all the memory that,
that you've committed in the
process, everything you've allocated. And
okay. So if I have
an asp.net worker process, and
I've used up 300 megs
of Ram, I'm going to
get a 300 Meg. Yeah.
So if you've allocated 300
allocated and committed 300 mice.
Yeah. Okay. What's in Ram
may not really reflect what
you're actually using gutsiest. What
is paged into Ram right
there. Okay. So mean, you're
saying that it might just
been, I I've have committed
it, but I haven't filled
it up. No. So if
you have multiple processes running
on the same system, then
they're sharing the same Ram
and you may not be
able to fit everything you
have and the process inside
your Ram. So some of
it is going to pay
and be paged out to
disk. Okay. And when I
make the user dump, are
those things gonna be lifted
off the disc and then
written out to the practice.
So it will reflect a
true kind of the virtual
memory that I have. And
essence, if you, if you've
allocated, adopt net object, it
will be in the dome.
Okay. Now I've seen you
open up task manager and
then just right. Click on
a, on a process and
say, create dump. Yes. And
that's, is that the most
common way to make it
difference? It depends on how
you, what you're trying to
capture, because if you want
to capture a snapshot of
right now, like for example,
a hang or, or performance
issue and see what it's
doing right now, or if
you want to capture a
memory down to figure out
how much memory you using.
Yeah. Create who user, if
you want to capture a
Dom, for example, on a,
on an acception, you would
have to use another tool,
either a winded, Richie's a
companion 80 plus you can
configure that to grit and
get memory dumps on exceptions
or on crashes. It's called
a D plus 80 plus
auto dump plus, or so
that is the VBS file.
That's automating CDB. Okay. Slow
down. Cause we had a
lot of listeners are hearing
a lot of acronyms. So
if VBS files a visual
basic script, that's going to
go and do an automation
of it. What A CDB
CDB is the command blind
version of windy bitchy. Okay.
So when DBG is the
windows debugger that you get,
when you install the debugging
tools, It's a free debugger
and it's, I'm a native
only to buggery. It doesn't
really understand.net at all. Okay.
Really? So when DBG doesn't
understand mixed what they call
mixed mode or, or manage
code, and then CDB is
the command line debugger version
of Yeah. So when did
individually doesn't look scary and
they're a CDP. Okay. Okay.
And then CVB is apparently
complicated that I would want
to use a command, a
visual basic script to automate
it, to do it, Not
necessarily. That is so complicated
is that you need to
do it so fast that
if you had to do
it yourself, like for example,
you would, then it would
be difficult. So it's easier
to use a script to
go in. For example, if
you would, if you would
capture a dump on a,
on an exception, you can
either choose to set a
break point on that exception.
And when that happens, click
something and create a dome
or use a script that
catchers captures that. Okay, great.
Now why would I, as
a developer, want to either
right. Click and create a
dump or put in a
tool that would capture a
dump versus going debug, attached
to process, Because I don't
think you'll have visual studio
installed on your Espinoza server.
Sure. What about like remote
debugging? So still like, so
even when, when you're doing
remote bugging, when you're attaching,
you'll stop the process. And
if you have a site
that has to be up,
then you can just go
in and stop the process
and accurate Leasher look at
some values and continue. Okay.
So you're saying if in
production I go and attach
a debugger to this process,
it's really going to have
that thing tied up completely.
Yeah. But you're saying that
I can right. Click create
dump in production and the
process will just keep running
and how long it will
be down for as long
as it took to. Yeah.
So that's, I mean, it
depends a little bit on
how big the processes, but
we're talking somewhere around one,
two seconds. Really? Yeah. So
it sounds like that that's
a really great way for
you as an escalation engineer
to capture a moment in
time and really see what's
going on. Okay. Do you
think that this is a
skill that more developers should
have? I'm not really sure,
because at first I did
think that a lot of
people should have these skills,
but then I'm not sure
if you should spend a
whole lot of time actually
learning days. It's like learning
this to, to a depth
where you're debugging like me,
because this is my job.
I think that most people
should be able to just
open a simple dump, run
three commands and that, yeah.
Okay. Is that a real
number of commands is there's
three things that people should
know. Right. And she used
three commands that are good.
I know that I felt
quite proud of myself when
I had a blue screen.
And then I opened that
was again, a kernel mode
dump. And I opened up
when DB G and I
typed in, I think it
was like, what is it?
Bang, analyzed dash V. And
that's like the standard. I
don't know what I'm doing,
but figure it out best
you can. And then when
a DBG will give you
a general sense of what
it thinks might have happened.
And that was the extent
of my abilities when DPG,
But that's good because when
you run a specifically, if
you have a crash occur,
occurred a mode crash. If
you run an analyze slash
V, what it will do
is it will look up
where you are and then
we'll also match up would
bucket and like dr. Watson
bucket to set. Okay. So
let's, let's dig into that
a little bit, because you're
speaking from a Microsoft person's
perspective, dr. Watson, right. Was
a little tool that I
think lived in windows 3.1,
or to just start, I
guess it was exchange would
error reporting. Yeah. It was
a little man with a,
is a little, like a
little iconic icon of this
little doctor with a stethoscope
listening into a process. And
dr. Watson is the, kind
of the, what we say
when we actually use it
as a verb instead of
Microsoft like, Oh no, my
process has Watson. Right? And
then it goes, and it
sends up an error report
to a service cloud service
in the sky. And it,
how does it decide this
bucket ID? I've seen this
notion of a bucket ID.
It looks at a stack
that crashed, and then it
compares it to other crashes
that have happened. And if
it fits the same stack
will put it in the
same bucket. And then for
example, when let's say 10
people or more have sent
in dumps where the same
bucket, then it will be
investigated. So I'm guessing 10,
Some, some, some large number.
Cause I understand that that
dr. Watson and this notion
of shared buckets of, of
identical stacks was a big
part of what made windows
seven, a much better operating
systems. And they really put
some statistical analysis in this.
And I suppose that, is
it true that in your
job, you're looking@thesekindsofthingsandreportingtotheasp.net. I, I'm
not necessarily looking at Watson
buckets. That's not really what
our team does. Our team
works on people call in
and have issues. And then
we report back for assemble.
If they get, if they
have bugs in ASP net
itself, Do you look and
see if this is a
repeated bug? Like if they
have a bucket and you
go, Oh, well, we already
know about that. None of
this is there from dr.
Watson buckets, but yeah. Marlin
box systems. So yeah, I
know that the team looks
at these buckets and says,
well, look, you know, a
thousand people are having this
particular problem. We should really
dig into that. And they
would go, yeah. And if
they do dig into that,
then the next time you
have an issue like that,
you're going to see, Hey,
there's a reported problem. Go
ahead and download describer. Right.
And in windows seven, that's
what that action center says.
It says, Oh, we know
about this, go click here
and we'll fix it. That's
really kind of cool. So
help me understand the difference
between debug versus release mode.
Cause I know a lot
of people and I don't
think they want to admit
it, but maybe the listeners
would maybe admit it to
themselves who will put a
lot of debug code into
production because the perception is
that a.net application that's production
that's in release mode is
hard to debug. So they
just say, forget it. We'll
just put this in debug
mode. We'll leave it there.
Okay. What are the trade
offs between debug versus release?
So would say because, because
the release mode is optimized
and debug mode is not
in most cases, if you
would actually go in with
a, with a, a dotnet
debugger, like visual studio. Yeah.
It may not pop up
the exact right line of
code. You might be off
by a couple of lines
or two, but are you
really gonna do that? Are
you really going to attach
official studio to it? Probably
not in production. Yeah. And
for tools like when did
bitchy, you're taking memory doms,
you don't need that. So
the only reason I could
see for, if you, if
you're really, really concerned about
line numbers and things, is
if you're yourself reporting a
stack and reporting, you know,
reporting back code lines or
whatever. But other than that,
I don't see much of
any reason to have debug
remote on the server. And
for ASP, not it's even
worse because at debug mode
kind of implies that you
want to let a dotnet
the bugger attached to it
and be able to debug
it fine. Right. And because
of that, timeouts are not
honored because after, like, for
example, if you said to
Nate, it's been a timeout,
default timeout is like one
and a half minute for
any ASP X page. Okay.
So if a page takes
too long, it'll shut it.
Yeah. Yeah. You know, you'll
see like page type out
or whatever that does not
happen. If you have debug
mode and reasonable courses, because
you attach it to bugger,
you can't have it shutdown.
Right. You could be debugging
for 20 minutes. So that
doesn't happen. You don't optimize
the code and that may
or may not be a
big performance issue for, you
know, most sites really don't
have that type of performance,
like neat. Right. But one
thing that does make a
big difference is that if
you run in debug mode,
you'll create one assembly per
ACX page. So they'll all
be Also many assemblies gets
created. If you had hundreds
of pages, you're going to
have hundreds of little tiny
assemblies and release mode. You
just get one Or rather
if he's have debug equals
false in config. So there's
a bit of a difference
of, if you say, debug
release mode versus debug equals
true. Nice. Yeah. That's a
very interesting point. So you're
saying that the dropdown list
in visual studio switching between
debug and really That has
nothing to do with That
tells the compiler for your
code behind pages, what to
do, and then saying debug
equals true or false in
the compiler section of the
web config tells the jet
pilot how it should treat
those pages. Yes. Interesting. Hey
everybody, this is Scott coming
at you from another place
in time. No doubt. You'll
probably bump into testing tasks
now, and then, and your
work and, you know, writing
functional tests is probably not
your favorite thing. It's kind
of difficult. It takes time
and the results can be
dubious. Well, get ready to
start liking tests. Thanks to
Tellerik with the new whereby
testing framework. Building web automation
test is a breeze. You've
got code automation with advanced
asp.net Ajax and server light
applications. So you can write
a single test, have it
executed against multiple browsers at
once. You'd benefit from a
rich API there's link support
integration with visual studio unit
testing, also in unit X
unit and MB unit, not
to mention the free rappers
for Telerik rad controls for
ESPN and Ajax and several
light, all shipping with Telerik's
new testing tool. One of
the best features, the whereby
testing framework, which is developed
by art of test is
it's absolutely free. Freddie got
hooked on web by testing
framework, start using it right
away, go to tellerik.com for
more info. Thanks a lot.
So it sounds like putting
debug mode in a website
is just a bad idea
all together. There's really no
good reason to do that.
But if, if something, if
something bad happens really other
than really good logging and
tracing, I'm pretty much limited
to dumps. Then at that
point I might not. Yeah.
So what are some of
the classifications of things that
could go wrong and asp.net
that it would cause me
to want to take a
dump? Let's see. That's funny
taking, we always say that,
take it down, but it
makes everybody laugh. Yeah. In
fact, yesterday I was called
and it was like, please
say, take a memory or
a great memory. So most
of the cases I get
are either high memory usage,
performance issues, or my process
crashed, or I have this
really weird exception that I
have no clue why it
happened. Okay. So memory issues,
this is like mostly leaks.
Like I'm using up too
much memory. Yeah. Yeah. So
in, in really in.net, there
is like this feeling that
I should not be able
to use up too much
because I have the garbage
collector. Right. Well the garbage
collector will only collect garbage,
but it doesn't collect things
that, well, how does it
know it's garbage? You're not
using it anymore. You're not
referencing it anymore. Right. So
most memory issues in.net applications.
So really you're referencing things
that you may not even
know that you're referencing. Okay.
So that means that if
you took a memory dump
and looked at it, you
would find a lot of
objects and of a certain
type. And then you'd say,
why do I have a
million strings? Yes. And then,
and then what do you
do Then? So first off,
like you said, go ahead
and look at what you're
using it for or what,
what do you, what objects
are on the heap and
everything. And then for each
of them you can use
in wind energy, you can
use command. It's like GC
route. That's a command from
the SOS expansion. Okay. So
SOS is some of it's
called a sexy called son
of strike, which really means
nothing. This is the funny
thing about Microsoft. Does it
really tell me, Let me
just get back to that
because I'm just going to
say that. So you wouldn't,
you would run a command
to figure out why it's
still being referenced. So that's
what you would do. So
it'll tell you that. So
you say I've got these
objects. I want to find
out why, who is still
referencing them and it'll actually
walk it back and tell
you who allocated that. And
when, when I say, who
is that an object? Or
is that a cost? No,
it's, it's an Arabic. So
it's either a static object.
It has a reference to
something that has the reference
to something like, for example,
a static object. It has
a reference to the cash
and your cash. You have
session variables, your session verbals
are holding onto this obvious.
So you'll see the ABI
not to stack. And when
I see these things on
your blog, I see small
abbreviation commands, like you said,
was it GC route to
command? That's just, there's other
dozens of these are hundreds
of these things I have
to write. So I'm trying
to From analyzed dash V
to get somewhere in your
direction of, So I would
say basically there may be
five commands that you, you
really want to know, or
a three or five, like
you want to know what
the stacks of the threads
are. This one command is
called CLR stack. Okay. You
want to know the obvious
Sunday that are in memory
dump stat. And you want
to know, for example, looking
at a specific object dump
OBS, and then GC route
to figure out who's holding
onto memory. And that's really
like with those commanders, if
you don't want to go
into deeper, you'll get a
lot, lot of information Really.
So using those five commands
will probably get me a
lot of what I need.
Yeah. Okay. So that's memory.
And so this is an
extension to when DBG. Okay.
So the name comes from
in the very beginning, you
had the CLR was called
lightening, or that was the
working name for the CLR,
for the core piece. Same
for the core run time.
Exactly. So they had this,
they had is the bugging.
Well, the bagging extension called
a strike as in the
strike, the lightning strike. And
this is kind of an
offspring of that. So this
is son of strife. Okay.
And then now we say
SOS. Yeah. Okay. They're not
supposed to call for help.
I was a long time
ago. That's like nine years
ago. How long have you
worked for micros? Oh, a
long time. Wow. So the
memory thing makes sense. That
idea that I can take
a snapshot in time and
I can wander around the
snapshot and I can see
these objects and figure that
out. That that makes sense
to me. But on a
perf using a dump a
moment in time to identify
a perf problem, how do
I do that? Well, you
can either Look and see
what, so when it comes
down to a perfect shoe,
it's basically, what am I
doing? And why is it
taking so long? That's really
what it comes down to.
So looking at the threads
to figuring out, like, to
figure out what are doing,
so what the dotnet call
stacks are, and preferably if
she has to perfect you
something and taking a long
time, then maybe taking a
couple of diet and a
couple of memory dumps during
that time to figure out
if things are moving along
or an auto thing. So
I really, I see now,
if something is quote unquote,
taking a long time, aren't
there kind of two categories
of what could be causing
that one would be, I'm
waiting for something in the
sense of there's a concurrency
issue we're in line. So
that's basically what do we
call it? An idle hang.
Okay. Idle hang. So a
bunch of threads are waiting
for one thread to let
them in Yeah. Or an
external resource or anything. And
then I would think that
the other one would be,
I have an inefficient algorithm
and I think that would
be difficult to, Yeah. So
that's pretty much where you
have to take multiple dumps
to see maybe how many
iterations you're taking, you're doing
in this particular algorithm or
some of the more common
ones on with busy hangs
are high CPU in garbage
collection. When you allocate a
lot of large objects, or
if you do make a
lot of full garbage collections
that causes high Seaview in
garbage collection or something like
using an efficient regular expressions.
So an idle hang is
waiting in line for someone
to let me in. And
then a busy hang is
I'm just doing a lot
of work that I don't
need to be. And I
could be doing a busy
hang. That is my code,
wait, doing a lot of
work or it could be
indirect in the sense that
I'm making a lot of
work for.net. I would say,
if you can reproduce a
performance issue, then you're better
off doing some kind of
profiling and visual studio, for
example. But if you can't
reproduce it on a test
machine, then you would have
to take, So if it's
a busy hang, that only
happens in production than I
would want to do multiple
thumps. But yeah, you know,
it's funny how few people
use profilers. It really is
a shame. Profilers are just
amazing things, dot net, you
instrument so much. And then
In visual studio, there are,
and even in 2008 and
I, my feeling is that
it's gotten even better in
2010, the way profiling works
there is for busy hangs.
You wouldn't want him to
do the CPU profiling and
for idle hangs, you would
want to do the instrumented
profiling. So the CPU profiling
basically goes in and, and
looks at every now and
then it goes in and
looks at a stack and
see where you're spending most
of your time. Whereas instrumented
profiling is more elapsed time.
So how long it took
for, for certain questions to
Now, I could be spending
my time in my own
code, or I could be
spending my time in Microsoft.
And when I'm looking at
a call stack, if I've
got no correct me, if
I'm wrong here, if I've
got no symbols, I'm just
going to see offsets in
my stack. Yeah, Yeah. For
the native, like for the
stuff that's not your code.
Yes. The native for NEMA
for.net code, you don't need
symbols. So this is the
part I'm confused about. What
do I need and what
is a PD before? Cause
I've heard you say this
before that I don't need
symbols, but what are these
PDB fours? I mean, do
I need them or not?
Yeah. So for a native,
so non.net stuff, you do
need them because there is
nothing in that method or
nothing in that obviated tells
you what the function name
is. So if you don't
have symbols, the symbols, it
basically is a database that
says this address means this
function. Okay. And the debugger
goes in and says, okay,
I I'm at this address.
Where would I be? Oh,
at this function, plus some
offset. Okay. For the net
code, you don't need that
because that's all built into
metadata in the objects themselves.
Okay. So do I not
need PDBs at all? Well,
they're, they're not needed for
debugging, woodwind woodwinds, but for
example, for, for the button
would visual studio you'll need
them because they contain information
about a file names where
your code is like line
numbers where this function is,
that kind of stuff. Okay.
So amateurs Unmanaged code, I
need the PDB is not
only for line numbers and
file names, but for offsets
to method, name, map, And
depending on what PDBs you
have, like if you have
private or public ones, they
may or may not contain
type names, parameter names. Okay.
So I'm there. So I
could be in my code
or I could be in
Microsoft's code. It seems like
now that I can look@themicrosoftsourcecodeforthe.net
framework while I've got the
function names of the, you
know, like I could be
in a regular expression, I
could be in system dot
rejects or something like that.
I still would like to
get the line numbers then.
So I would want to
hook up a symbol server.
Is that correct? To bring
those PDPs? Yeah. But, and
the.net symbols are usually not
up there. So that's mostly
for native. Okay. So where
do I get those symbols?
Are those already on my
system? I'm pretty sure that
they are up there. I
think that there's a Microsoft
public symbol. Yeah, no, there
is one, but I'm wondering,
do they have things for
a for example system web?
They do. Okay. I think
if I go tools, options,
and I go into the
debugger section, there's a series
of checkboxes and I can
go and say use the
public symbol service. Yeah. But
I'm thinking like for, for
example, for when did she,
I don't recall if they
show these, they do show
the name Sure. That they
do. Yeah. And I think
what it does, at least
for the mixed, the mixed
mode stuff is it'll bring
down the PDPs for system
dot web and for all
those different things. And then
you're saying that the symbol
server doesn't just contain.net stuff
it contains And that it
contains native. So if I
get down into NT DLL
that DLL or something low
level current of 32, it'll
bring those down too. And
that gives me the benefit
of having a call stack
that shows me method names
all the way up the
stack, not just Exactly. Yes.
And the symbol server is
basically like, sort of, if
you have your own symbols,
you would maybe put them
in directory and set up
that as part of your
symbol. Right. And that was
my next question. If I
run a large enterprise and
we did this at my
last job, I want to
set up a share such
that when I have a
continuous integration server, that's doing
my builds. I want to
copy all those PDB is
over there. Yeah. So there
is a different, like you
either put them in directory
and then it'll be recognized
by name, but for assemble
server assemble service, basically kind
of like a folder structure
where, where you might have,
you know, multiple PDBs for
Emma score works or for
NTD LL depending on operating
system or depending on framework
version number. Right. And there's
a certain structure that those
folders need to be. They
include a hash of the
file so that you could
have multiple versions side by
side And that's so that
you can debug dumps from
everywhere on the same machine
or devalued processes, wood, wood,
different framework, portions versions, and
stuff like that. And you
can set that up for,
for your own company too.
You can set up a
symbol server that works, like
if you have different, So
you can have multiple paths
that you can search inside
the Microsoft simple server and
then your own. Yeah, absolutely.
Where's a good place for
people to get started with
debugging if they're an I
S and asp.net. Yeah. So
apart from, from when to
achieve, there is also this
tool called debug diag Dubai
dye. 1.1 is the one
that's out now and it's
actually just released with a
64 bit version. Okay, cool.
What it does is it
tells you not only to
gather memory dumps in a
very easy way where you
can configure it to take
dumps on certain exceptions or,
or crashes or whatever, but
it also helps you analyze
memory dumps. So you can,
it has a hangout Alliance
where it has a memory
analyzer. You can write your
own scripts. So I wrote
a script on my blog
blogs that I'm standard, calm
stash tests, where I it's
a script for debugging does
not memory leaks, but shows
the most common things and
basically open your, your dump
up wood. That script gives
you information you need without
even opening a window T
Now I understand that there's
some improvements though, with specifically
around don't files in 2010,
that's going to make some
of these things, maybe not
obsolete, but certainly less often
used. Absolutely. So at not
so much in the memory
space. So you can't currently
at least with visual studio,
2010 beta two, you can
look at dotnet obviously on
a heap, but it's just
got a very nice way
of showing like the stacks
moving to source code. And
we did a recording of
that too, For channel nine.
We'll put up a video
of this for channel nine
to demonstrate that, but in
a, in a nutshell, the,
for pro busy hangs and
idle hangs, this gives you
a beautiful visualization. Just open
it up with the visual
studio. You look at something
called parallel stacks that would
show you all the, all
the stacks of all the
threads. And yeah, it's awesome.
I can't even describe it
in a word. Yeah. I
mean, this is, seems like
a large portion from what
you showed me. And again,
we'll, we'll have a link
up on channel nine at
the Hansel minutes on nine
section. This is gonna make
a, a huge chunk of
your job, less text mode
and graphical. I would say
for me, I would probably
stick with windows G why?
Because it's. Yeah, but it's
the speed of the text
mode and it's the speed.
And it's the fact that
sometimes you need to go
in and look at the
native objects that you can't
really access still. It would
be interesting would be to
figure out if you could,
because you can create extensions
now to visual studio. If
you could write something that
would bring that wind DBG
command line in and do
a split screen. So you
can ride a lot of
the commands. For example, for
SOS, you can use them
in the immediate window and
officials too. Really. And is
there a stuff on your
blog about how to use
SOS in the immediate window?
Very cool. I think you
wrote a post on that
maybe a couple of years
ago. Cool. Yeah. Well, your
blog is a great resource
for this kind of stuff.
You've got all sorts of
stories about adventures in debugging.
You've got scripts and resources
that people can check out
And labs, if you want
to try debugging hangs or
memory leaks or things, right.
I noticed that you did
this recently. You put up
a series of labs where
you can actually, we can
download a dump and we
can go through it and
try to learn Or actually
download a website that has
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Very cool.
Well, thank you so much
test for sitting down with
me. Cool. We'll be sure
to check out Tessa's blog
at blogs.msdn.com/test. I'll put links
for all of that, as
well as the tools that
we've talked about up on
the show site. This has
been another episode of Hansel
minutes, and I'll see you
again next week.